---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 2, Week 5"
date:   2021-04-20 21:00:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## Consistent gains thrown away in one race. ARGH!

It was overall a good week with solid gains, then I threw it all away by braking too late in turn 15 at Hockenheimring and the guy behind me smashed into me. This was 100% my fault and knocked me from "in the points" to "lost a bunch of iRating and Safety Rating." Woof. Still, I'm _basically_ in the 1500's now, and was very nearly in the 1600's. I know, I know. The actual numbers are different, but one bad race losing 60 iRating isn't going to break my career, and it won't disappoint me next week.

In other good news: not only am I keeping my ranking in SRF, I'm now on the first page in IMSA GT-4 in my division! 23rd place!

### Results at week end
* 1492 iRating
* 3.44 Safety Rating
* Spec Racer Ford
  + **3 / 402 Division 5**
  + 127 / 2667 Worldwide
* Advanced MX-5 Cup
  + 53 / 1231 Division 5
  + 463 / 7708 Worldwide
* IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge
  + **23 / 621 Division 5**
  + 410 / 4807 Worldwide

### Race Detail
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [Hockenheimring Baden-Württemberg - Grand Prix](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38354574). 12 laps. Qualified 12th, ranked 10th. This is the _good_ race, not the _bad_ race. I kept it together with zero incidents and finished in the top 10, and placed better than my ranking. Scooped up a couple iRating as well!  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 2:03.393. Finshed 9th place out of a field of 18. Strength of Field was 1650 and I gained 11 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: [Lime Rock Park - Grand Prix](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38355817). 25 minutes. Qualified 10th, ranked 21st. Lime Rock isn't the most exciting track, but it's a test of precision. It's also very satisfying to get some solid laps in, and managing to pass people in the tight lap is also satisfying and fun. Finishing in the top 10 was REALLY satisfying since I was ranked last in the group!  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 1:01.205. Finshed 9th place out of a field of 21. Strength of Field was 1865 and I gained 33 iRating.
* **IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge**: [Phillip Island Circuit](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38381346). 30 minutes. Qualified 11th, ranked 13th. I raced only once this week and chose the 570S to do this race. Phillip Island is still a challenging circuit for me with turn 2 and turn 10 still a challenge. I made a few mistakes so I lost a bit of SR and didn't finish as high as I could, but overall I am mostly pleased with my results. I also see I'm on the "first page" of my division now! Ranked 23rd!  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 1:37.510. Finshed 8th place out of a field of 17. Strength of Field was 1866 and I gained 11 iRating.
