---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 2, Week 6"
date:   2021-04-25 09:30:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## What a week! (╯°□°)╯︵ ┻━┻ 

Tuesday/Advanced MX-5. I made a great start in the first half of the Nurburgring race, and then blew it with a money shift! Argh! Fortunately I didn't hit anyone, no one hit me, and I finished more than 50% of the laps, gaining participation credt and saftety rating. I consoled myself with a Fanatec MX-5 race (which is rookie race, but there are enough participants to match with similar skill levels) and gained SEVENTY-FOUR iRating! 

Thursday/Spec Racer Ford was terrible as well, but it was again my fault. I'm feeling comfortable at Brands Hatch (it takes me forever to really get comfortable with a track) so I thought this would be a good race. SRF folks are really good drivers and there's usually a nice spread. Well, I got too agressive and made a bunch of mistakes, spinning and going off several times in th 20 laps. Fortunately I didn't ruin anyone else's race.

Saturday/IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge. This has gotta be better right? I felt good about the Nordschleife even though I am not great at this track, but because no one on this service can drive. All I have to do is just keep it together and I could come home with SR and IR. LOL, after this week? I joined the race and in the first goddamn corner some guy sends it. I'm in 5th and had to stop while he literally went shooting by. Of course I get rear-ended (not by him, but some other jackhole) even though the entire field is slowed to a stop. THE FIRST FUCKING CORNER. I make it through with just the single 4x and think "ok, i'm in 20th, but at least I won't lose a bunch of SR and I may even get into top 10".

Hah, lol no. 2nd lap, just before the mini carousel, I'm keeping pace, but staying right (as one does) and this guy comes up on me but doesn't pass. Ok, fine, being cautious. Then I brake into a wide right corner, maybe Plfanzgarten (I don't know the corners by heart) and I was already right but drifted left, so it was a mess. I tried to get out of the way but he comes flying in and smacks me, spinning me out for another 4x and putting me in a 11 minute pit. I finshed 12th, losing a chunk of IR and SR becuase idiots can't see what's in front of them.

### Results at week end
* 1456 iRating
* 3.06 Safety Rating
* Spec Racer Ford
  + 3 / 419 Division 5
  + 117 / 2765 Worldwide
* Advanced MX-5 Cup
  + 55 / 1293 Division 5
  + 483 / 8016 Worldwide
* IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge
  + 23 / 676 Division 5
  + 385 / 5283 Worldwide

### Race Detail
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [Brands Hatch Circuit - Grand Prix](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38460844). 15 laps. Qualified 12th, ranked 13th. Miserable performance on my part with the appropriate iRating and Safety Rating hit.  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 1:43.482. Finshed 13th place out of a field of 20. Strength of Field was 1585 and I lost 21 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: [Nürburgring Grand-Prix-Strecke - BES/WEC](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38430947). 25 minutes. Qualified 13th, ranked 17th. Great start until I blew my engine. At least I made it over 50% of the laps so I got the participation credit. No incidents thankfully.  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 2:20.203. Finshed 17th place out of a field of 19. Strength of Field was 1901 and I lost 57 iRating.
* **IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge**: [Nürburgring Combined - Gesamtstrecke 24h](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38493080). 30 minutes. Started 7rd, ranked 3rd. (no quali in the big 'ring).  Apparently I didn't even complete a full lap to get a "fastest lap time." All I had to do was COMPLETE the 4 laps and I would have been in the top 9!  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 10:06.130*. Finshed 12th place out of a field of 21. Strength of Field was 1048 and I lost 32 iRating.
