---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 2, Week 8"
date:   2021-05-11 19:45:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## Welcome to the iRating roller coaster

I can't seem to build on success, either with iRating or Safety Rating. My confidence begets laziness and I either have too many offs or don't drive fast enough. Ugh. In the past I've attempted a "cooldown race" in the Sim-Lab Production Car Challenge (Class D multiclass racing) with one of the slowest cars in the game, the Pontiac Solstice. Unfortunately even with that slow car, I end up getting one or two incidents (which means no safety rating increase) and since there are only 2 or 3 entrants the iRating is usually a wash.

I tried SimLab Challenge with the MX-5 which is more familiar, and did a little better this week. I had just enough incidents to have zero change in my Safety Rating, but I did gain a little bit of iRating, even though I finished 14th (I was ranked at the bottom). I don't think this is a great avenue for improvement though, I think I'll just focus on the 3 series I'm participating in.

### Results at week end
* 1448 iRating
* 2.69 Safety Rating
* Spec Racer Ford
  + 3 / 650 Division 5
  + 120 / 3926 Worldwide
* Advanced MX-5 Cup
  + 26 / 1394 Division 5 (almost first page!)
  + 324 / 8619 Worldwide
* IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge
  + 27 / 814 Division 5 (almost first page!)
  + 398 / 6308 Worldwide

### Race Detail
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [Oulton Park Circuit - Fosters](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38712339). 22 laps. Qualified 6nd, ranked 6th. My first race here was filled with mistakes, but I made up for it in the second race. I made a few mistakes, but managed to keep it to a very tiny SR hit (0.01).  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 1:08.144. Finshed 4th place out of a field of 19. Strength of Field was 1316 and I gained 59 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: [Circuit de Barcelona Catalunya - Historic](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38685730). 25 minutes. Qualified 7th, ranked 15th. This was a pretty decent race and I held my own against stronger drivers. Still, I had a few incidents and lost a bit of SR.  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 2:04.167. Finshed 8th place out of a field of 26. Strength of Field was 1558 and I gained 45 iRating.
* **IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge**: [Long Beach Street Circuit](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38710482). 30 minutes. Qualified 11th, ranked 13th. This is the first time I raced Long Beach and, as it's a narrow street circuit, I thought it was going to be a disaster. I took it easy and managed to incur ZERO incidents! However, that put me down in the ranking and I lost a ton of iRating. Win some, lose some.  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 1:28.497. Finshed 12th place out of a field of 13. Strength of Field was 1454 and I lost 67 iRating.
