---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 2, Week 4"
date:   2021-04-12 18:00:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## Nordschleife!

Hah, hah, I just didn't have the heart to race the 'Ring, but to my credit I had a big software release (work) over the weekend so I didn't get to do my normal driving on Saturday and Sunday. Sonoma was difficult in IMSA, and Tsukuba was medicore. *sigh* I still got credit for 2 series and my full credit isn't in jeopardy. I gained enough Safety Rating this week to put me back in the mid 3's but my iRating took a huge hit in my races at Sonoma.

I'm not first in my division in SRF any longer, but this week was a "down" week and I only raced once. The placement is all points based so the more you race the higher you get. I'm still in the running as the guy on top doesn't have a great race/points ratio!

### Results at week end
* 1402 iRating
* 3.44 Safety Rating
* Spec Racer Ford
  + 3 / 389 Division 5
  + 133 / 2750 Worldwide
* Advanced MX-5 Cup
  + 110 / 1046 Division 5
  + 798 / 6542 Worldwide
* IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge
  + 33 / 590 Division 5
  + 534 / 4452 Worldwide

### Race Detail
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [Tsukuba Circuit - 2000 Full](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38258220). 24 laps. Qualified 8th, ranked 12th. Not a terrible race, but not a great race. I finished higher than my ranking (which is always nice) but I still lost a bit of iRating. I managed to gain SR so that was nice.  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 1:04.310. Finshed 10th place out of a field of 15. Strength of Field was 1924 and I lost 8 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: Nürburgring Nordschleife - Industriefahrten. 5 laps. Even though I had Wednesday-Friday off this week I didn't race. I practiced but didn't get one lap in without crashing. I didn't like those odds so I just skipped it.  
**MX-5 Results**: Didn't race.
* **IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge**: [Sonoma Raceway - Cup Historic](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38259311). 30 minutes. Qualified 17th, ranked 12th. I didn't do well in the first race so I wanted to do better on the second. Well, I didn't. I made a stupid mistake when someone went off on the 2nd lap (100% my fault)and hit the wall, black-flagging myself. I went into the pits hoping I could do a quick repair but no dice. I got out, did a lap, and then came back in to finsih all the repairs. I managed to gain SR, but I lost a chunk of SR, ending the week just over 1400 iRating. Yuck.  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 1:21.019. Finshed 18th place out of a field of 22. Strength of Field was 1451 and I lost 59 iRating.
