---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 2, Week 12"
date:   2021-06-07 20:30:00 -0600
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## Happy about results, but I could do better
My guiding metric this season is trying to be in the 95th percentile. Because some blogger (who is actually a great guy) said ["95%-ile isn't that good"](https://danluu.com/p95-skill/) Well, I've done the math (below) and I've met the "not that good" bar! On the plus side, I'm in the top 25 of my division in all series. That means I'm on the first page when I go to the "home page" of the series. That's pretty awesome!

Well, how do I feel about this season?

#### Spec Racer Ford
This is an underrated series. In the year I've been racing, this series is consistently well driven by racers of all skill levels and it continues to be a challenging car to drive. Whenever I have finshed poorly I always know why, and I am always learning. Some of the tracks don't suit this car due to it's lack of power, but the racing is what keeps me coming back. I'm really looking forward to next season with the updated car! I'll definitely stay with this series next season!

#### Advanced MX-5
As frustrating as this series can be, I keep coming back. What can I say? I love this car! I'm so comfortable driving it, and there are no tracks where I've felt that the car doesn't suit the track. Over the season I've gotten within a second of the top hot lappers, so I know I have pace. I'm still making mistakes, but my mistakes are getting fewer, and my racecraft is improving. I haven't adjusted the setup yet (other than roll bar), and I think I'm fast enough and consistent enough to start focusing on setup. I don't want to blindly use setups from VRS or "the Internet," I want to actually learn, and this is the best car to do so!

#### IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge
I should have raced this series before I jumped right into the GT-3 cars. This is about the fastest car I can manage and still be competitive. I bought both the Porsche and the McLaren, thinking I would perfer the Porsche. Well, it turns out I prefer the McLaren. The McLaren is "sharper" and while the Porsche is initally easier to drive, the front-end washes out halfway through the race and really has a lot of understeer. I suppose I could setup the car to change that (I'm using the stock setups until I get comfortable with the car), but I don't want to do that until I know what works for me. I am also 2-3 seconds off pace so I have a lot to learn with the stock setup.

### 2021 Season Three Goals:
* Stick with the current series I'm racing to earn max participation credit. Don't waver, just focus on the 3 races per week. I made a lot of mistakes this season trying to increase SR and IR by jumping around to other series and that hurt me.
* Be strategic about race participation. Only do a max of 4 races per week per season to maximize ranking. If I get a good finish with good championship points, focus on the other series.
* Spec Racer Ford: Stay in the top 5 of my division, and perhaps crack the top 100 worldwide.
* Advanced MX-5: Try for top 10 in my division. Dig into car setup and learn how to change the car to suit my driving style.
* IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge: Focus on McLaren, ignore Porsche. Do better than top 25, maybe top 10?

### Results at season end
* 1412 iRating
* 2.55 Safety Rating
* Spec Racer Ford
  + 5 / 801 Division 5 - 99.4%
  + 160 / 4889 Worldwide - 96.7%
* Advanced MX-5 Cup
  + 13 / 1618 Division 5 - 99.2%
  + 243 / 9987 Worldwide - 97.6%
* IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge
  + 25 / 1038 Division 5 - 97.6%
  + 375 / 7870 Worldwide - 95.2%

### Weekly Race Recap
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [Sebring International Raceway - International](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=39085652). 10 laps. Qualified 5th, ranked 1st. Bottom split (of 2). Sebring is a tricky track and the SRF is a tricky car. I had 6 incidents which were entirely my fault and lost 0.13 SR.  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 	2:32.709 (Purple!). Finshed 3rd place out of a field of 11. Strength of Field was 1042 and I gained 36 iRating and 49 championship points.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: [Mount Panorama Circuit](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/TrackDetail.do?trkid=219). 25 minutes. Didn't race.  
**MX-5 Results**: Didn't Race.
* **IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge**: [Road Atlanta - Full Course](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=39055944). 30 minutes. Qualified 5th, ranked 4th. Bottom split (of 2). Road Atlanta is one of my favorite tracks, but I've got a lot to learn with the GT-4 cars. I had 6 incidents overall but only lost 0.06 Safety Rating thankfully.  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 1:27.696. Finshed 7th place out of a field of 16. Strength of Field was 1215 and I gained 10 iRating and gained 44 championship points.
