---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 2, Week 9"
date:   2021-05-16 10:30:00 -0600
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## Don't race unknown tracks!

This week was another new track for me - Zandvoort. 

Tuesday evening: I thought a few practice laps before the race would be good enough. LOL, no. I actually was doing pretty well until I spun, and then somehow broke the car resulting in a meatball. I was able to get back to the pits, but the 5 minute repair put me 4 minutes down and in the back of the pack (literally, I finished last). I took my lumps (NINETY NINE iRating!) and spent time learning the track. My pace was good enough for 10th - 12th so next race will be better. As a small consolation, I completed my MX-5 series completion credit ($4) which now has me at the max credit for a season ($10). 

Saturday: I managed to make up for Tuesday's abysmal Zandvoort race with 2 good finishes on Saturday, and earned good iRating and I'm pretty well placed in the Advanced MX-5 series. 

Speaking of placing in the series, as of today (Sunday May 16th at 10:30 AM), I'm on the "first page" of my division for each of the 3 series I'm participating in! A friend pointed out that my assumed calculation of how points are counted was wrong, so now I'm thinking about how to finish the season well, and what I'm going to do next season. I seem to be destined to stay in the 1400 iRating range so foucusing on iRating next season to move to ~2000 is likely out of the question.

Somethign I'm not going to talk about too much is my races in 2 other series. I do these to pick up iRating and SR and failed MISERABLY. I lost HUGE amounts of iRating and SR this week (see week end results)! When will I learn?

### Results at week end
* 1377 iRating
* 2.32 Safety Rating
* Spec Racer Ford
  + 2 / 657 Division 5
  + 127 / 3984 Worldwide
* Advanced MX-5 Cup
  + 11 / 1426 Division 5 
  + 239 / 8804 Worldwide
* IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge
  + 16 / 839 Division 5
  + 343 / 6489 Worldwide

### Race Detail
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [Suzuka International Racing Course - Grand Prix](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38745714). 10 laps. Qualified 5th, ranked 4th. Suzuka is an extremely challenging circuit with several corners I still struggle with. I'm consistently slow in Turn 1 which probably costs me a second right there. The esses are another difficult section for me, I feel that I'm really losing time there but can't put my finger on it. And then there's Spoon I slow down so much for the first part of the corner (to navigate the second part) that my exit is extremely slow. I'm debating racing again here this week. I was doing so well and ready for a podium but made a few mistakes (also knocking another racer out which I was really upset about) and incurred 6 incidents - giving me a Safety Rating hit.  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 2:30.607. Finshed 4th place out of a field of 11. Strength of Field was 1296 and I gained 28 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: [Circuit Park Zandvoort - Grand Prix](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38804442). 25 minutes. Qualified 16th, ranked 22nd. This was my best result of the week of 3 races. I was in the top split and ranked well down (22 out of 24 cars) and my quali pace isn't great, but I am now within a second of the fast folks and I'm very consistent at that pace. This race was great! I had a few minor incidents but nothing serious, however OTHER racers were all over the place so I took advantage and finished well with a heap of championship points and iRating. I manged to even gain a tick of SR in the process!  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 1:55.366. Finshed 7th place out of a field of 24. Strength of Field was 1761 and I gained 61 iRating.
* **IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge**: [Mid-Ohio Sports Car Course - Full Course](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38775264). 30 minutes. Qualified 13th, ranked 14th. A friend told me this race is a "wreck fest" so I only did one race, even though I enjoy Mid-Ohio. I managed to not have any incidents which has me thinking about doing another race! I have been burned so much this week with the races and my SR and IR is so low right now I'm extremely gunshy.  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 1:30.804. Finshed 11th place out of a field of 28. Strength of Field was 1408 and I lost 8 iRating.
