---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 2, Week 11"
date:   2021-05-30 15:30:00 -0600
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## Computer isn't crashing, Racers are. 

After last week's disastrous computer issues, (solved by, surprisingly, undervolting at stock speeds) I had high hopes. I'm re-thinking the way I approach races and have shifted to "2 races per series" to "get one good race out of four per series". This focuses me more on championship points and (hopefully) keeps my IR and SR up.

I started Monday off really well with SRF and achieved an amazing finish with some really solid championship points putting me back in 2nd for SRF, so I didn't plan on doing any more races there. I had a bad race Monday in MX-5 costing me 56 iRating (more later) so I figured I'd try again later.

A busy week pushed my next race to Saturday, so I gave IMSA Michelin Pilot Cup a try at Hockenhiem. I'm not great at this track and pulled off a decent race so I left it at that - to focus on MX-5.

Woof, Advanced MX-5. Sometimes I wonder why they call it "advanced" becuase there are some real chuckleheads in this series. I'm really comfortable at Phillip Island, and I've got the MX-5 "dialed" and I'm making very few mistakes per race. I'm acually relaxing in the race now, which is making me even faster! I have a stock setup except for the roll bar, which I've adjusted to give "less understeer" and I'm really liking the results.

Saturday I had a decent quali - 5th on the grid - and an amazing start. After a few laps I was in 2nd and comfortable behind first - just waiting for them to make a mistake or finish second. The 3rd place person (qualified 2nd) was driving pretty erratically so I wasn't too worried about him throughought the race. Well, I saw him try to divebomb a really slow corner, so I just went wide preparing for him to run off with his late brake maneuver. Of course he wasn't paying attention so even though I was way on the outside of the track, and he was turning in, he still punted me. To add insult to injury - he drove right off and my car was wrecked (10 minute tow and repair)! There goes that race and another 67 iRating. __Reported__.

Sunday I got up renewed and was going to make things right. I had a great quali and started 3rd. I quickly passed 2nd and then stuck behind 1st for a few laps. I do this mostly to demonstrate I'm a conciencious driver, but also to get away from the rest of the pack before I start battling. Well, after 5 laps we were both ahead of the pack so I started pushing. I never touched him (not even a 0x) and he was behaving well, so I poured on the heat. We were side by side several times - once for nearly the entire lap. He made a little mistake in turn 2 and I saw my opportunity. He missed his braking and went way wide - almost off track. I braked and tucked inside, making sure to leave him plenty of room (but he would have to slow down to make the corner). Instead he kept in it, rotating the car and ramming me right behind my right front wheel. I knew somethign was wrong when turning the wheel had no effect so I laid off the throttle and went into the grass. He scooted off without issue, and my car suddenly spun 180 degrees. So my front suspension is completely damaged. Another 10 minute tow+repair and my race is gone again. He finished first and I lost 79 iRating. __Reported__.

I had one more opportunity to make a good showing in the leaderboard (best out of 4 races, or best 2 out of 8), and with 1298 iRating I was basically a ringer whatever Strength of Field group I would be in. I took it easy though in quali and ended up 4th on the grid. There was a bit of a mixup on the first lap and I had to take a 1x by driving around the carnage, but I kept on it and quickly the top 3 (me in 3rd) pulled away from the pack. It was another good battle and I was in the lead for nearly an entire lap, but the first place guy got around me in turn 1 but braked a little early in turn 2 so I had to run wide to avoid him. Stupid mistake on my part and I ran off track which gave me another 1x and put me 4 seconds behind the front two. I never got back to battle, but I stayed 6 seconds clear of 4th, and finshed the race on the podium, and I even grabbed the fastest lap of the race (a first for me)! FINALLY.

### Results at week end
* 1366 iRating
* 2.71 Safety Rating
* Spec Racer Ford
  + 4 / 775 Division 5
  + 145 / 4720 Worldwide
* Advanced MX-5 Cup
  + 9 / 1538 Division 5 
  + 216 / 9490 Worldwide
* IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge
  + 21 / 989 Division 5
  + 343 / 7470 Worldwide

### Race Detail
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [Summit Point Raceway - Summit Point Raceway](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38939421). 18 laps. Qualified 2nd, ranked 5th. Two incidents, gained 0.07 SR.  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 	1:23.611 (Fastest in field!). Finshed 2nd place out of a field of 16. Strength of Field was 1377 and I gained 79 iRating and 78 championship points.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: [Phillip Island Circuit](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=39022462). 25 minutes. Qualified 4th, ranked 9th. Two minor incidents but I gained 0.07 SR.  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 1:46.984 (Fastest in field!). Finshed 3rd place out of a field of 16. Strength of Field was 1297 and I gained 68 iRating and 68 championship points.
* **IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge**: [Hockenheimring Baden-Württemberg - Grand Prix](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=39006377). 30 minutes. Qualified 8th, ranked 12th. I'm going to focus 100% on the McLaren going forward. The Porsche just doesn't suit me and the balance changes too much during the race. I could not put a group of clean laps in on the Porsche here. I kept it toghether with the McLaren, getting only 3 incidents and managed to gain 0.13 Safety rating.  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 1:49.162. Finshed 9th place out of a field of 23. Strength of Field was 1381 and I lost 2 iRating and gained 42 championship points.
