---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 2, Week 10"
date:   2021-05-23 10:30:00 -0600
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## The only direction to go is up!

### Friday
Due to a busy week, I got a bit of a late start, so i didn't race my first race until Friday evening.

Took a chance with SRF at Long Beach. I tweaked the brake bias to 55% from default of 58.5%, and I think I like that a bit better. I took it easy (street circuit) and grabbed a nice bit of IR and SR. 

I jumped into MX-5 at Road America next. Since I'm adjusting setups, I changed the roll bar from "firm" to "medium" which - according to the game - gives more overster (or less understeer?). Regardless, I didn't notice much of a difference so I'll step to the "soft" bar next. I had a terrible quali but started in 9th. After about 1/3 of the way thorugh I was in 6th place battling a guy who I just passed. I put my elbows up and protected my line into turn 6 and then he literally drove right over me resulting in a 4x! Argh! Well, he stayed behind and I stayed on track. I chose a somewhat conservative pit strategy and got back in 12th with 15 minues remaining. It turned out to be a good strategy and by the end of the race there were 3 of us battling for 4th. I was in 6th but I figured the other two guys would crash so I took it easy. On the last lap it looked like there wasn't going to be a change, but 6th is ok, so I stayed behind. Literally on the last corner I ran a little wide, went off track into the barrier (another 2x)! I was so furious! I managed to get back on track and got 8th place, which I was happy with and - surprisingly! still got picked up a few iRating and no loss in SR!

### Saturday
Feeling good about my Friday MX-5 race, I decided to jump into another one today. I had a cracking qualifier and beat my best lap by a second! I qualified 4th, and was 2nd/3rd the entire race with zero incidents. I was truly "in the zone" for the first time ever! 5 minutes before the end, I'm comfortably in third and on the bumper of 2nd (we swapped places a few times, I was fine with 3rd) and... bam, full computer lockup and hard crash. *RAGE* I actually managed to rejoin the race after rebooting but I finished 19th. (╯°□°）╯︵ ┻━┻  I lost 60 rating versus gaining 75. At least I had zero incidents so I gained healthy SR.

### Results at week end
* NNNN iRating
* N.NN Safety Rating
* Spec Racer Ford
  + x / yyy Division 5
  + x / yyyy Worldwide
* Advanced MX-5 Cup
  + x / yyyy Division 5 
  + xx / yyyy Worldwide
* IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge
  + xx / yyy Division 5
  + xx / yyyy Worldwide

### Race Detail
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [Long Beach Street Circuit](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=). 16 laps. Qualified 5th, ranked 7th. No incidents, and gained 0.19 SR.  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 1:36.436. Finshed 6th place out of a field of 14. Strength of Field was 1619 and I gained 30 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: [Road America - Full Course](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=). 45 minutes. Qualified 9th, ranked 14th. No change in SR.  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 2:36.160. Finshed 8th place out of a field of 20. Strength of Field was 1478 and I gained 27 iRating.
* **IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge**: [Charlotte Motor Speedway - Roval](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=). 30 minutes. Qualified XXth, ranked YYth. Haven't raced yet.  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: M:SS:TTTT. Finshed XXth place out of a field of YY. Strength of Field was XXXX and I gained YY iRating.
