---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 1, Week 4"
date:   2021-01-15 02:00:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
What happened to week three? I'm not good at blogging! This week was IMSA and VRS. IMSA was a usual finish where I was back of the pack in my class (but still finishing). VRS was quite an experience. It was at Road America which I've raced a lot and I have a good understanding of the layout. I'm still pretty green with the Lamborghini, but I'm able to get through a race with few "offs" and finish the race at least.

Well, until Sunday. I spent some time practicing and then queued up for the race. We did our sighting lap and the lights went green. I was well back in the pack so it took a while to get to the start/finish. People were well behaved but as I came over the crest just before start/finish I could see a car upside down on track and people were slowing down. I slowed down. The guy behind me did not. He punted me full throttle sending my car flying through the air (which is, of course a no-fault penalty to both of us). 

I was on the inside so unfortunately my car landed in the pits. On the roof. With a black flag for "unsafe pit entry". Wow, bad start to the race. Since I'm on my roof I have to request a tow - which results in a 3 minute wait to get "to the pits". The hits keep coming! Well, I'll only be down one lap, right? I can serve the 30 second penalty and potentially still finish in the points. 

Hah! Wrong. When I get back into the pits I see I have 27 minutes (!!!) of mandatory fixes! Remember, the race is only 40 minutes long. I very nearly ragequit, but I rememembered that finishing the race is better than not finishing for the iRating so I put my headset down and walked away for a breather. I finished the race 11 laps down, but didn't actually loose a LOT of iRating. Wow. Here's hoping next week is better.

Ended the week at 1375 iRating and 3.35 Safety Rating.

* **Spec Racer Ford**: Long Beach Street Circuit. 16 laps. I do not have this track. No race.  
**SRF Results**: No Best lap.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: Sonoma Raceway - Long. 25 minutes. I do not have this track. No race.  
**MX-5 Results**: No Best lap.
* **VRS GT Sprint**: Road America - Full. 40 minutes. Qualified 19th.   
**VRS Results**: Best lap: 2:13.117. Finished 24th place out of a field of 30. Strength of Field was 1410 and I lost 57 iRating.
* **IMSA**: 24 Heures du Mans. 60 minutes. It was a regulation race that ended in regulation disappointment. I qualified 6th in my class.  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 4:08.227. Finshed 12th place out of a field of 13. Strength of Field was 1995 and I lost 78 iRating.
