---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 1, Week 9"
date:   2021-02-13 12:30:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## Finally placed well in VRS!

I have been considering abandoning VRS Sprint as it's been a challenging season. First, it's challenging because I'm in a new, much faster car, and second VRS is tightly contested - there are a lot of folks racing so the "experience spread" is very close in each race. Last week was terrible, I thought I was prepared, but did horribly. This week I thought I would just get the race out of the way "first thing" on Saturday morning and enjoy the other races.

I practiced a bit (not too much) and joined the race. I noticed I was the highest ranked in the session. "Hoo boy" I thought. "Another iRating slaughter". Well, I figured I would just take it easy in qualifying and set a race pace lap. I qualified 17th. I felt ok though and I know that at my level it's "to finish first, first you must finish" - just keep it nice and tidy (on track) and dont get distracted and don't make any mistakes and you are home free. Well, I managed to do just that! I only had one minor off (resulting in a 1x, not a spin), and a few cut track incidents, as well as a few missed braking opportunities. I was able to recover from each of them and push on.

I raced Advanced MX-5 Cup on Saturday afternoon. It's my first iRacing race at the Nurbrburging GP course, I know the course pretty well and my practice session this week was good, so I thought I'd go ahead and knock this out too. I had a bad start (wheelspin) and was rear-ended for a 4x. Otherwise I only had 1 other off and placed well.

IMSA was decent. I ran a good race (other than being punted by a Ferrari) but I was really down on speed. I think I should have tried the medium downforce at Monza.

Spec Racer Ford went pretty well considering. I did OK, but with one split encompassing 1300 - 5100 iRating I was never going to place well. My "ideal" lap time (based on best sectors) is a 2:09, the fastest lap by the #1 driver in the race was a 2:06! That's insane!

Ended the week at 1337 (LEET) iRating and 3.58 safety rating.

### Results:
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [Autodromo Internazionale Enzo e Dino Ferrari - Grand Prix](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=37439791). 12 laps. Qualified 8th, ranked 11th. I was well-placed early on, but had a stupid off and lost 3 places. I kept it together for the rest of the race, but it was a pretty strong field, and I am happy with the result (other than the stupid half-spin).  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 2:10.882. Finshed 9th place out of a field of 13. Strength of Field was 1898 and I lost 8 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: [Nurburgring Grand-Prix-Strecke - Grand Prix](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=37405760). 45 minutes. Qualified 9th, ranked 15th. This was another good race for me. Aside from the start (and a missed braking marker in the NGK Schikane) I am happy with my race. I was battling for 7th and was getting tired. I knew I had to pit at some point and after the goof up at the chicane I just pulled in to get fuel. This turned out to be a great plan as I returned back in open track and was able to relax and cruise to a decent finish. Bonus for gaining both Safety Rating and iRating again!  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 2:22.556. Finshed 9th place out of a field of 25. Strength of Field was 1392 and I gained 33 iRating.
* **VRS GT Sprint**: [Oulton Park Circuit - International](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=37403789). 40 minutes. Qualified 17th, ranked 1st. Good race for me overall. I managed to keep it on track except for one stupid off and I gained both Safety Rating and iRating. A very satisfying conclusion to the race!  
**VRS Results**: Best lap: 1:35.791. Finshed 8th place out of a field of 26. Strength of Field was 1238 and I gained 37 iRating.
* **IMSA**: [Autodromo Nazionale Monza - Grand Prix](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=37422891). 45 minutes. Qualified 10th, ranked 10th. It turns out I should have picked the "medium downforce" setup instead of the "high downforce" setup. I was easily 2 seconds a lap off pace (and 4 seconds off the class leaders). Oh, and if you are in GTD and see a Ferrari (GTE) in your rear view, you might as well just run into a wall yourself, because that guy is going to do his damndest to punt you into the stratosphere. Oh, yeah #NotAllFerrariDrivers...  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 1:51.896. Finshed 10th place out of a field of 12. Strength of Field was 1885 and I lost 53 iRating.
