
---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 2, Week 3"
date:   2021-04-04 12:00:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## First in Spec Racer Ford!

I'm falling behind in these reports, so I don't remember what happened. I do remember being on top though! Next week will be challenging in MX-5 because it's the Nordschleife! I've done many laps in other games, but I still don't have a solid understanding of all the turns, and I really need to learn the "blind" turns where I must slow down!

### Results at week end
* 1526 iRating
* 3.37 Safety Rating
* Spec Racer Ford
  + 1 / 234 Division 5

### Race Detail
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [Sonoma Raceway - Cup Historic](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38183168). 17 laps. Qualified 4th, ranked 7th. I used to like Sonoma in Forza, but in iRacing it's a different track. The first few corners up the hill from the start are very tricky and I still don't know where to place the car and where to get it slowed down. I also think I'm losing quite a bit of time in the harpin at the end of the straight. However, I kept it tidy and finished well - even with a 360 spin in this race!  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 1:26.223. Finshed 3rd place out of a field of 11. Strength of Field was 1623 and I gained 61 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: [Oulton Park Circuit - Fosters](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38109801). 25 minutes. Qualified 2nd, ranked 1st. I did two races back to back on Tuesday because I was again punted by someone unsafely rejoining (in the top split even!). This is getting really old. This was espeically frustrating because I went from being ranked last to 6th place, and was going for a heap of iRating and great SR gain. Strike that I lost both! This second race I was ranked at the top of the split, so I just tried to take it easy, remembering the previous race. Fortunately I kept it tidy and resulted in a gain of 78 iRating and 0.21 Safety rating, so I decided to focus on other races this week.  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 1:06.904. Finshed 2nd place out of a field of 24. Strength of Field was 1176 and I gained 78 iRating.
* **IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge**: [Circuit de Barcelona Catalunya - Historic](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38181256). 30 minutes. Qualified 16th, ranked 16th. Given my experience with MX-5 over the past week I decided to just turn it down a notch and crank out consistent laps, avoiding any wrecks. This was a good plan, and Catalunya is a very forgiving track so i mansaged to keep my incident count down and gain good safety rating as well.  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 1:53.069. Finshed 11th place out of a field of 24. Strength of Field was 150 and I gained 14 iRating.
