---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 1, Week 8"
date:   2021-02-07 14:15:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
Bad race on Saturday (VRS), good race on Sunday (IMSA).

After an amazing series of practice sessions in the Lamborghini at both Laguna Seca (VRS) and Interlagos (IMSA) I felt fully prepared for this week of racing. I jumped into a practice sesion at Laguna Seca and again had a great session, ready for the full 40 minute race. Ha. Ha. Had a decent first lap in quali, then spun the second lap. Oh, well, no worries - I'm still placed well and it's only a 1x which means I won't have a significant ding to my Safety Rating if I keep it clean during the race. Started the race well, and then within the first 5 minutes I spun twice. This put me at the back of the grid (my usual place) with another 4x in incidents. That pretty much wrecked my race, I couldn't get my focus back and finished poorly.

I thought I'd throw in a quick "rookie" MX-5 race before the SRF race to get back in "mental shape". That went well and I placed second. These rookie races are populated with all ranks of drivers so I wasn't outclassing anyone. I was actually ranked 5th in the race, so I finished higher than my rank. I had a nice chunk of iRating gain (76) but only a small Safety Rating gain of 0.08 due to the short race duration.

SRF was a strange layout of Monza and I was turning good laps in practice. I was really comfortable with my pace and figured things would go a lot better. They were for the first half of the race, and then disaster. There were 3 of us coming out of Parabolica, and the guy just in front of me went sideways. I darted to the right hoping I could get by before he got around, but no luck. He t-boned me pretty hard which really did a number on the car (4x). I "crab drove" the car back to the pits, resulting in a "spin" which put me with another 2x in the few hundred yards between Parabolica and the pits. The car was very damaged which resulted in 5 minutes of full repairs. This layout has a 1 minute lap so I was down significantly. Even with full repair, the car isn't "straight" so it was a challenge just to get to the end, resulting in 2 more offs for a total of 8. Another hit to my safety rating.

I needed to do something to get my SR back up, and longer races are better, so I thought I would try something new. A D-class endurance race in the MX-5. The track was well known, I'm comfortable in the MX-5, and I figured it was a no-brainer. I qualified 2nd (my ranking was 20/30 so that was really high given my iRating) and started the race nicely. The first place guy was fast, and I wasn't going to catch him, but I figured I was ok for a top 5 and perhaps a podium. As I raced I became aware that my keybind for "full fuel load" may not work due to me only racing in shorter series. The max fuel in the MX-5 is 3.9 gallons, maybe this endurance series allowed a larger max tank? I pulled up the black box and maxed it out at 3.9 gallons. Well, now I realize I need to come in for a SECOND stop before the end of the race. I was doing some mental arithmetic to see how little I could get aways with. Obviously I could max out fuel with a press of a button, but I would lose valuable seconds, and as we know, sometimes races are won in the pits. I figured I'd easily finish the race with a gallon and maybe gain a place (I was in 6th). I started tweaking on the straight and then ... disaster. The revs spun, the rear locked up, and I went right into the wall, flipping the car (surprisingly only a 2x). I had to tow, then 8 minutes of mandatory repairs. This was doubly problematic because I had an instant repair avaialable, but didn't look until AFTER I was in the pits. Ugh. I finished 5 laps down in 24th place. Here's the kicker. I have an app that I can talk to for pit strategy. I haven't set up the voice activation yet, but you bet I will be setting that up THIS WEEK. I did end up earning a healthy chunk of safety rating (0.18), so that's nice.

I decided to wait until Sunday to race IMSA to clear my head. For whatever reason, IMSA is less stressful to me and I was feeling really good about racing at Interlagos - even though it's a challenging track for me. This race went a lot better! I started well, had a punt by one of the LMP drivers (x4) in a tight corner which knocked me off (totally their fault). I was passing a fellow GTD class driver and had a bit of a slide, causing him to hit me (x4). Fortunately I didn't seem to ruin his race as he was able to continue on. The only other silly mistake I made was as I was coming in to refuel, I MISSED MY PIT BOX. I should have known it would be near the pit entrance. Stupid. Well that was a self-imposed drive-through penalty. Went back around and pitted PROPERLY and finished 6th (in my class). Nice!

Ended the week at 1328 iRating and 3.29 safety rating.

* **Spec Racer Ford**: Autodromo Nazionale Monza - Junior. 26 laps. Qualified 5th, ranked 9th. Great race until I was hit. No fault of the other driver, and there wasn't much I could do at the time. I was already setting up to pass and was too close to take any other evasive action.  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 1:00.771. Finshed 13th place out of a field of 16. Strength of Field was 1351 and I lost 61 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: Brands Hatch Circuit - Grand Prix. 25 minutes. I do not have this track. No race.  
**MX-5 Results**: No best lap.
* **VRS GT Sprint**: WeatherTech Raceway at Laguna Seca - Full Course. 40 minutes. Qualified 18th, ranked 14th. VRS GT Sprint remains stressful for me, as evidenced by the many dumb mistakes and my mental state during the race.  
**VRS Results**: Best lap: 1:23.966. Finshed 19th place out of a field of 27. Strength of Field was 1408 and I lost 37 iRating.
* **IMSA**: Autódromo José Carlos Pace - Grand Prix. 45 minutes. Qualified 8th, ranked 7th (I think). Remember folks! In GTD your pit boxes are way at the back because YOU are way at the back! Otherwise this was a good race for me and restored much of my confidence. I was "only" down 4 laps - the leader of GTD was down 3 laps so that's a good result. I also managed to pick up a little bit of SR, so I'm in a much more comfortable position.  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 1:36.034. Finshed 6th place out of a field of 11. Strength of Field was 1971 and I only lost 4 iRating.
