---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 1, Week 6"
date:   2021-01-24 14:00:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
Getting better at GT-3!  

This week I had 3 races. Spec Race Ford, Advanced MX-5 Cup, and VRS. I really am not liking VRS, primarily because I am slow, and it's a difficult car to manage. I could blame the "wreckers" and first corner punters, but I see that in several series at this iRating level (around 1300-1400). I almost didn't join a VRS race this week because I practiced at the track for about 2 hours and in 30 laps I had 32 incidents. Not great for the ol' Safety rating. I did a "rookie" MX-5 cup race to just get some iRating back, and that went really well (I was on the podium!) so that gave me the incentive to try the VRS race. That turned out to be a good plan. I took it easy and came away with only one "off" and finished a respectable 17th (respectable to me!).

Ended the week at 1365 iRating and 3.45 safety rating.

* **Spec Racer Ford**: Road America - Full Course. 10 laps. Qualified 4th. I had a bump early on (x4) which distracted me, and then I spun (x2) 2 times and went off (x1) twice ending up with 10 incidents.  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 2:40.491. Finshed 13th place out of a field of 16. Strength of Field was 1722 and I lost 38 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: Autódromo José Carlos Pace - Grand Prix. 25 minutes. Qualified 3rd. Overall a good race. I'm making good pace on this track and feel comfortable even though I've only raced it a few times. This track suits the Miata really well and it's a lot of fun.  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 1:53.585. Finshed 4th place out of a field of 20. Strength of Field was 968 and I gained 47 iRating.
* **VRS GT Sprint**: Oran Park Raceway - Grand Prix. 40 minutes. Qualified 22nd. This was easily my proudest race in VRS. I slowed down and just focused on completing the race with as few incidents as possible. I had one stupid off (which didn't result in a penalty) and one tiny mistake for a 1x. I got a healthy safety rating gain and I think 17th was a really good result considering the difficulty of the course and the competitiveness of the field I only finished one lap down.    
**VRS Results**: Best lap: 1:05.600. Finshed 17th place out of a field of 27. Strength of Field was 1337 and I lost 24 iRating.
* **IMSA**: Daytona International Speedway - Road Course. 75 minutes. I do not have this track. No race.  
**IMSA Results**: No best lap.
