---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 1, Week 12"
date:   2021-03-07 18:00:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## Final Week. Whew!

This week was a mixed bag. A few disappointing races, and I lost both Safety rating and iRating. *Sigh*

I did accomplish nearly everythign I set out to do this season. I gained all my avaialble credits, and I gained my Class A license. I didn't race all 8 VRS races, but those races aren't enjoyable, so I just dropped out of them the past 2 weeks.

### Season results:
* Spec Racer Ford: Placed 40th out of 918 in my division (260/6495 in the world). 10 races.
* Advanced MX-5 Cup: Placed 59th out of 1925 in my division (296/10511 in the world). 13 races.
* VRS GT Sprint: Placed 1098th out of 3626 in my division (6221/19345 in the world). 8 races.
* IMSA Sportscar Championship: Placed 95th out of 1057 in my division (694/5950 in the world). 9 Races.

I probably would have placed higher had I focused on 1 or 2 series, and I see now that 4 series is entirely too much. I somewhat regret jumping right into GT-3, and I think I'll drop down to GT-4 next season. I'll focus on SRF (Class D), Advanced MX-5 (Class C), and IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge (Class C). That will still net me all the avaialble credit (3x$4) and hopefully I can drive the Porsche a little better than the Lamborghini. I'm still mostly focused on sports cars, but man, I may pick up a Skippy (Skip Barber Formula 2000) next season in June to try open wheelers.

I ended the week (and the season) at 1415 iRating and 3.34 Safety Rating.

### Results:
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [Sebring International Raceway - Club](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=37765856). 20 laps. Qualified 6th, ranked 5th. This was the first time I've driven the Club layout at Sebring, and I think I prefer it to the full layout. Fun, tight little course - perfect for the SRF. I didn't finsh well and had 8 incidents giving me a loss of 0.18 Safety Rating, but it was my fault and I still had a lot of fun. Can't wait to drive this one again.  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 1:16.928. Finshed 9th place out of a field of 16. Strength of Field was 1174 and I lost 21 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: [Watkins Glen International - Boot](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=37736192). 25 minutes. Qualified 9th, ranked 2nd. I raced this twice this week and Tuesday's was better, so I'm talkign about that one. A few dumb incidents netted me a total of 9x resulting in a loss of 0.24 Safety Rating, but I managed to pull off a 7th place finish and gained a healthy chunk of iRating.  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 2:11.613. Finshed 7th place out of a field of 25. Strength of Field was 1291 and I gained 40 iRating.
* **VRS GT Sprint**: Suzuka International Racing Course - Grand Prix. I have this track, but I didn't race.  
**VRS Results**: No best lap.
* **IMSA**: [Sebring International Raceway - International](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=37767512). 45 minutes. Qualified 10th, ranked 6th. After my experience in VRS with the Lambo a few weeks ago, I was pretty apprehensive. Sebring is an astonishingly difficult course and I was 3 seconds off the pace so I anticpated a bloodbath. I actually did really well and only ended up with 3 incidents (a small gain in Safety Rating of 0.10) and placed mid-pack which was surprising even for me. I won't be regularly racing IMSA next season, but it was an enjoyable season even in the back and I learned a LOT about racing and racecraft. Also the MX-5 is a lot easier to drive now.  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 2:05.366. Finshed 7th place out of a field of 12. Strength of Field was 1626 and I lost 10 iRating.
