---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 1, Week 7"
date:   2021-01-30 15:00:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
Slow car good, fast car bad. ¯\\_(ツ)_/¯

This week I had races in all 4 series I'm participating in this season. My schedule is typically practice on Tuesday and Thursday, then race on Saturday and Sunday. I dedided to get the Advanced Miata out of the way on Thursday because I was feeling pretty comfortable with the course and the car (Miata and SRF are known to me, and I've raced Donington in the past). After last week's good result in GT3, and a good practice session on Tuesday at Imola with GT3 with the car/track, I figured I had time to knock out a race out of schedule. It was a good idea, and I placed well with some good racing. 

I took care of SRF on Saturday morning, and that went really well too. I had a better result and gained a lot of iRating and a chunk of safety rating too. Very nice.

VRS GT was a different story. I'm trying out different out-of-the-box setups ("normal", "high downforce", and "low downforce"). I have been mostly racing with high downforce, regardless of the track, to just stay on track. Low downforce is slightly faster, but it's not fast if you leave the track or spin! Based on my testing, I thought I'd try "normal" because I was incident-free and not as fast on the straights with the high downforce setup. Easy choice, right? Wrong. Woof. I had so many incidents I was black-flagged near the end of the race (not disqualified thankfully) and had to serve a penalty. I spent most the race 1 lap down so it was mirror watching the entire time. Sigh.

I haven't raced the IMSA session yet, but I'm pretty apprehensive about that. It's Suzuka which I still am not comfortbable with in any car. I mean, I'm comfortable, but I'm absolutely terrible in the Esses and Spoon, so I lose huge amounts of time there. It's going to be another endurance session for sure.

Update! IMSA was an experience! I practiced hard, got really good and then, my Internet died! LOL. They estimated it to be back up at 2:50 PM and the first race after that was 3:45 PM so what was I going to do? Well, I had to wait. 3:45 rolls around and I'm second-guessing myself because I've had Internet issues all week. Well, no harm in racing. If I get disconnected I'll just ask for the race to be "recovered" and potentailly get my iRating back. Read below for the rundown!

Ended the week at 1410 iRating and 3.25 safety rating.

* **Spec Racer Ford**: Charlotte Motor Speedway - Roval. 17 laps. Qualified 4th, ranked 14th. I recently discovered that my assigned car number is my relative ranking in the field. If I'm ranked 14th out of 18, that means there are a lot of drivers that have a higher iRating than me, so I assume the race will be a challenge. I actually qualified really well and got lucky with an incident early in the race. The rest of the race was really smooth sailing, I just kept my laptimes consistent, stayed about 8-10 seconds ahead of others, and I just focused on staying clean and bringing it home. I wasn't even trying for a podium. I had one mistake late in the race where I half-spun (a 2x) but the rest of the race was clean.  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 1:35.508. Finshed 3rd place out of a field of 18. Strength of Field was 1488 and I gained 75 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: Donington Park Racing Circuit - Grand Prix. 25 minutes. Qualified 6th, ranked 5th. This was a solid race. I had a few incidents, and bumped someone in the final corner which is an automatic 4x. I made sure to wait and let the other driver get ahead so I didn't gain any position. Aside from that stupid mistake, I felt really good. Even though the SoF was 1039, I was battling with folks in the high 1400s so it wasn't like I was rated higher than all the other drivers.  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 1:46.338. Finshed 4th place out of a field of 18. Strength of Field was 1039 and I gained 43 iRating.
* **VRS GT Sprint**: Autodromo Internazionale Enzo e Dino Ferrari - Grand Prix. 40 minutes. Qualified 22nd, ranked 24th. Qualfying higher than my rank is a good sign. I actually did my best lap in quali. I have high expectations, I know this race is going to be tough, but if I can keep it together, maybe I can finsh in the top 20, which will means a minimum of iRating loss. That didn't happen. I had a few dumb offs, I struggled the entire race with the chicane at Variante Alta - nearly spinning 3 laps in a row. VRS is closely contested with only ~200 iRating separating 1st from 29th and since the cars are "robust" there's a lot of rubbin. I'm not a fan - especially as a back-marker. This was probably my worst race ever because I had enough incident points during the race to get black-flagged. So much stress. I will still continue the season but man, this is rough. I do think it's making my SRF and MX-5 racecraft better, so there's that.  
**VRS Results**: Best lap: 1:47.646. Finshed 23rd place out of a field of 29 (down 2 laps). Strength of Field was 1533 and I lost 52 iRating.
* **IMSA**: Suzuka International Racing Course - Grand Prix. 45 minutes. Qualified 5th in class (I think?) and ranked 6th I think. I started off poorly with a half-spin on the first lap. Argh! Well, time to get back on it. I pushed and was driving really well. 1 or 2 missed corners but no worries! I caught up to ... 7th I think? ... and was ready to pass and then made a stupid mistake and went off again. Bahhh. Well, I can still finish placed well as I'm in the race and have good pace and good position! I did the math for a decent pit stop, pulled in, and then was disconnected! Argh Internet! 18 minutes left. I waited to see my results, preparing for the worst (a huge hit to iRating). Surprisingly - even though I finished TWELVE LAPS DOWN I retained my 8th place finish! Only a small hit to iRating and SR, and I got championship points which means I get "credit" for this season. I'll take it!  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 2:02.835. Finshed 8th place out of a field of 12. Strength of Field was 1915 and I lost 21 iRating.
