---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 2, Week 7"
date:   2021-05-02 19:45:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## Week N!

Tuesday was a wash. I wanted to race but had a power outage. Better that it happened before the race started than in the middle of the race!

The rest of the week went really well, I kept it clean in all my races (*) and gained a nice bit of Safety Rating and iRating. I did get placed in the lower splits for some reason, which I am always worried about, but all the races were very clean (again *) and everyone was respectful. It was overall a great week!

That is, until Sunday afternoon. My friend talked me into "big boy IMSA" with the GTD, GTE, and LMP cars. It was Road Atlanta, which is my favorite track, and there was a possiblity that we would be in the same race due to our close-ness in iRating. Well, that didn't happen, and Road Atlanta was a bit of a wreckfest. There were 38 cars on track! There were 7 GTD cars, and I was ranked 6th. After qualifying 5th I knew it would be a battle, but if I could just keep it together then I'd be fine.

Narrator: he did not keep it together.

I spun off twice and just towed into pits becuase both times there was no opportunity to get back on track safely. I managed to only catch 3x with those two spins, but I was down several laps and in 6th place. Well, I tried to make the best of it, and nearly did. Until the end of the race with 5 minutes left and an impatient LMP just punted me right off the course, resulting in another 4x and 22 minutes of repairs. I ended up 12 laps down in 6th , and if that hadn't happened I may have finished in 5th and perhaps gained a little iRating. As it was, I lost 47 iRating and 0.07 SR. Not terrible, but really annoying. Stupid LMP drivers.

### Results at week end
* 1442 iRating
* 3.27 Safety Rating
* Spec Racer Ford
  + 2 / 446 Division 5
  + 116 / 2944 Worldwide
* Advanced MX-5 Cup
  + 38 / 1334 Division 5
  + 401 / 8248 Worldwide
* IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge
  + 16 / 751 Division 5
  + 342 / 5836 Worldwide

### Race Detail
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [Mount Panorama Circuit](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38592798). 10 laps. Qualified 2nd, ranked 1st. Bathurst is an extremely difficult circuit, and SRF is a "pointy" car, which means I was on my best behavior. Still, I made a few mistakes (only 1 incident thankfully) and was way behind first. I was not really battling for second, the guy in 3rd let me have it so I just tried to keep it clean and gain SR and a little bit of IR. On the 9th lap Crew Chief said "first binned it in (some corner)" and I sped up just a little, because at that point he was 18 seconds ahead. Well, I saw him turn "blue" which I think means he towed to the pits. I saw the time between us drop faster and faster and I passed him just by start-finsh. Since SRF has a "instant fix" option, I was still worried he may get out and pass me on the last lap. Fortunately I made it by and got first!  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 2:41.894. Finshed 1st place out of a field of 10. Strength of Field was 1025 and I gained 67 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: [Virginia International Raceway - Full Course](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38591032). 25 minutes. Qualified 10th, ranked 2nd. I've raced VIR in other sims, but not iRacing, however I'm comfortable in the MX-5 and I know enough to get through without crashing. I was ranked highly in this group and didn't qualify well, but there's always the first lap shenanigans, so I wasn't worried. I made really good progress through the field, and everyone was racing clean. I got through the entire race with the guy behind me hounding me pretty closely through the last 3 laps. For some reason he decided to make his pass at the oak tree (which still stands in the game). He saw my line through there 3 times, but decided to send it. Of course if he was thinking right, he would have realized that he could have just passed me on the straigt using the draft. Of course I got a 4x which was annoying but he didn't shove his way through and backed off so I kept my place. Fortunately the 4x didn't reduce my SR.  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 2:11.135. Finshed 6th place out of a field of 20. Strength of Field was 1072 and I gained 27 iRating.
* **IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge**: [Brands Hatch Circuit - Grand Prix](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38565922). 30 minutes. Qualified 7th, ranked 5th. Brands is pretty familiar to me now, having raced it in both MX-5 and SRF this season. I kept it tidy and didn't suffer any incidents, and got 4th which was nice.  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 1:33.026. Finshed 4th place out of a field of 17. Strength of Field was 1141 and I gained 47 iRating.
