---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 2, Week 2"
date:   2021-03-20 12:00:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## A decent week

I'm racing 2 of each race per week, and picking the best one. I'm switching between the Porsche and the McLaren in GT-4, but I'm considering going "all in" on the McLaren, I'm really warming up to that car. MX-5 at the level I'm at (~mid 1400 iRating) still has a few jokers who don't know how to rejoin safely, so that killed my MX-5 week. SRF is going well though.

### Results at week end
* 1380 iRating
* 3.06 Safety Rating
* Spec Racer Ford*
  + 9 / 224 Division 5
  + 195 / 1646 Worldwide
* Advanced MX-5 Cup*
  + 18 / 594 Division 5
  + 250 / 3412 Worldwide
* IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge*
  + 47 / 488 Division 5
  + 713 / 3646 Worldwide

*(not accurate - after 2 races on Tuesday of week 3)

### Race Detail
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [Watkins Glen International - Boot](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38070488). 11 laps. Qualified 7th, ranked 11th. I'm still struggling with SRF after racing nearly a year. It still likes to oversteer and that has caused me several places. I feel pretty good though, just need to get smoother and be very gentle on the brakes. This is a momentum car anyway. The biggest thing is to keep it on the track and not spin so I don't have any incidents.  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 2:13.190. Finshed 9th place out of a field of 19. Strength of Field was 1512 and I gained 14 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: Brands Hatch Circuit - Indy. 25 minutes. This was frustrating in both races because I was punted both times. One of them was arguably my fault, a driver rejoined perpindicular to the racing line and I did have enough time to slow down, but I thought I could get by. Silly me.  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 52.662.
* **IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge**: [Lime Rock Park - Classic](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38057629). 30 minutes. Qualified 17th, ranked 5th. I don't remember this race, but I must have went off pretty bad because my results say I finished 15 laps down.  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 54.517. Finshed 20 a field of 27. Strength of Field was 1346 and I lost 50 iRating.
