---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 2, Week 1"
date:   2021-03-21 19:30:00 -0600
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## Week 1 of a new season!

This season I'm stepping back to GT-4 instead of GT-3, which means IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge. I got a gift card so I went all out, buying the entire complement of tracks, and TWO cars! The Porsche 718 Cayman GT4 Clubsport MR, and the Mclaren 570S GT4. 

I practiced at Sebring with both cars, and preferred the Porsche over the McLaren as it felt easier to drive. The McLaren is "sharper" but I felt more comfortable doing laps in the Porsche. That resulted in 2 second faster lap times initially, but after a few races it appears that difference is marginal. My fastest lap time at Sebring in the Porsche was 2:14.301 and in the McLaren it was 2:14.528. At my skill level 2 tenths is "identical." Something I noticed (at least at Sebring) is that the front end in the Porsche goes out pretty quickly (I think it's tire wear), while the McLaren stays stable throughout the 30 minute race. This will be in interesting contrast as I go through the season.

3 races a week is WAY better than 4, and I realize now that I should have went to the "entry level IMSA" first before jumping right into GT-3. Of course, now that I'm comfortable with 3 races, I am looking to push more and I want to bump up my Safety Rating, so I may try Time Trials, which I hear gives a little bit of SR if I do well. I am OK throwing away my TT rating (which is evaluated separately from iRating) to increase SR. I'd like to have the hallowed "Class A 4.99" on my badge, even if my actual race rating isn't that great!

The other option is race more frequently in SRF and MX-5. This week I did one race in each because Okayama (SRF) is a little "boring" and Spa (MX-5) was 45 minutes instead of the usual 25. 

### Results at week end
* 1431 iRating
* 3.40 Safety Rating
* Spec Racer Ford
  + 9 / 164 Division 5
  + 177 / 1118 Worldwide
* Advanced MX-5 Cup
  + 319 / 409 Division 5
  + 1658 / 2283 Worldwide
* IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge
  + 101 / 266 Division 5
  + 1005 / 2143 Worldwide

### Race Detail:
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [Okayama International Circuit - Full Course](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=37924559). 14 laps. Qualified 11th, ranked 6th. I don't remember this race very clearly, other than I had a stupid mistake on both qualifying laps resulting in a 4x apparently (off track is 1x, spin is 2x) and I see I had 4 incidents during the race as well. This lead to a small ding to my safety rating, but a healthy gain in iRating. Even though I find this course somewhat boring, I am apparently pretty quick, so I should have taken advantage of that. I see that I am fast enough to be in the top split, so I should push a little harder in SRF. I enjoy this car, even though I find it REALLY "pointy" and it requires really precise brake modulation. That's OK, it just makes me a better racer!  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 1:48.718. Finshed 2nd place out of a field of 14. Strength of Field was 1332 and I gained 76 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: [Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps - Grand Prix Pits](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=37965484). 45 minutes. Qualified 8th, ranked 20th. This was an extremely frustrating race for me, because I had a hardware glitch with my wheel which sent me into the wall as I was battling for 7th early in the race. I have raced Spa several times in several cars now and I am farily comfortable here so I knew I could place well, even with the strength of field which was higer than my iRating. 8th was a good start for me (I'm a racer, not a qualifier) and felt strong early in the race. I have occasionally seen "glitches" with my wheel and my new computer, but never in a race. Today that bit me HARD. I was in a great battle and I think I was capable of a top-5 finish, but things went sideways when my USB stack glitched out (I think this is my wireless keyboard which has caused me problems in the past) and sent me right into the wall. The way a USB disconnect works on my particular setup is no steering and 100% throttle so I was actually lucky to get away with a 2x and not hit any other cars. Having to be towed to the pits (2.5 minutes) and an 8 minute fix duration was a killer. I nearly ragequit, but hung in there - finishing 3 laps down with "only" a 35 iRating hit (versus 90 for the last place) and a small SR gain of 0.09. My next steps will be troubleshooting the keyboard (Corsair, I'd like to  have a word) which has a "wired" mode and seems more reliable, but I'll probably get rid of the keyboard entirely due to this.  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 2:50.234. Finshed 17th place out of a field of 24. Strength of Field was 1493 and I lost 35 iRating.
* **IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge**: [Sebring International Raceway - International](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=37970245). 30 minutes. Qualified 13th, ranked 15th. I raced 3 times this week, with 2 disappointing results in the Porsche and one great result with the McLaren. The first two races (in the Porsche) started well, and I avoided the first lap carnage. Since I qualify back in the pack, the racing is really slow for the first few laps. Once things get going and cars spread out a bit, then it actually gets dicey. I was punted early in both races which is really frustrating. I almost didn't do the third race, because Sebring is so difficult, and I was sick of people not paying attention, but I wanted to do both cars to compare and contrast. I'm glad I raced both cars, and I didn't get punted in the third race. I think I'm growing to like the McLaren more - probably somewhat because I didn't get punted, but it seems to be easier on the front tires or the brakes later in the race. I finished 6th despite having a stupid off about 10 minutes in which put me down several places. I likely would have finished in the top five if it wasn't for that.  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 2:14.528. Finshed 6th place out of a field of 25. Strength of Field was 1316 and I gained 34 iRating.
