---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 1, Week 10 (part two)"
date:   2021-02-20 19:00:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## Three great races and one punter.

I had an amazing race with MX-5 on Tuesday, see the previous post [and the YouTube video](https://youtu.be/f5Td4DxFrPs). What a rush! Probably my best race yet.

I spent Thursday (my other practice session) practicing at Sebring with the Lamborghini. I am bad at this track and it's an extremely challenging course. In my practice I'm 5+ seconds off pace and I'm considering not driving it at all in VRS this week. It's the final race with both the SRF and IMSA (same GT-3 car) and I'm good for participation credit, so maybe I'll punt and not drive it at all this season.

Saturday morning - it's my first race and I thought I would take a chance with Spec Racer Ford at Gilles Villeneuve. I'm 2 seconds off my ideal pace, and nearly 4 seconds off the fastest pace. It's ok, I'm consistent and I can get a little iRating and Safety Rating, so I entered with a little trepidation. This ended up being a great race, I qualified 2nd, and passed 1st place in the 2nd corner. I just took it easy and was quickly 10 seconds ahead. After that, I tried to keep it nice and tidy to maintain my advantaget the entire race, and only had one late braking incident missing turn 8 (costing me 2 seconds) and one "wall kiss" at turn 10. I led the entire race and finished first for a healthy gain in iRating and Safety Rating. This race also completed my season partipation credit and earned me FOUR WHOLE DOLLARS.

Coming off that good experience, I thought I'd give Sebring in VRS a try. Practice went well - I was off pace, but smooth and consistent. I joined the race as the lowest ranked driver and qualified nicely in 21st place. I figured I could pick up some safety points and maybe a little bit of iRating to boot. Well that was a good idea, I got a few good places early in the race and was in the top 20 and then made a stupid mistake in the hairpin, spinning and going to the back (resulting in a healthy 5x). No worries, I'll just hang in there and hopefully gain a few positions by the end. I'm still ranked last so maybe I can mainting some safety rating and loose a minimum amount of iRating. Well, a few corners later a clearly faster car completely putnted me LeMans pushing me off and, unfortunately, black-flagging me for mandatory repairs. **Sigh** well, what am I going to do? I pull into the pits and ... IT'S 22 MINUTES OF MANDATORY REPAIRS. Woof. Clearly I didn't end this race well - only finishing 10 laps (out of 20 that the leasder did) and losing a huge chunk of iRating. I didn't finsh last thankfully, but I didn't complete enough laps to get the credit. I don't think I'll make another attempt because A) I have two more races and I'll finish my mandatory 8 races, and B) The max credit is $10 and I'll get that with IMSA ($7) and MX-5 ($4) by week 12.

Sunday I raced IMSA and that was a great race! I thought I would practice a bit with the standard downforce to see if I could gain a second, Road America has a few straight streches and maybe I can improve my lap times over my standard high downforce choice. After a few laps and a few stupid offs, I figured I wouldn't chance it and just picked the high downforce setup again. I actually put in my best lap ever in my qualifying despite just trying to keep it neat and tidy. I usually rank pretty low in the start so I'm not going to blow my race by crashing in quali. I qualified in 9th in my class so that's pretty usual.

IMSA has a rolling start and the leaders of the GTD class decided to do a super slow parade lap. I have no idea what was going on, but the race went green and I hadn't even gotten to Canada which was super crazy. Serves them right because at least one of them went off before the start/finish. I took it pretty slowly the first few laps because everything felt wonky to me - the other drivers were driving erratically and several of them went off. I kept it together though and finally got into the race on lap 3. At that point the LMP leaders were already barrelling down, so it was a few more laps before I could really get going. No worries though, because I was actually well-placed in my class. I just drove on and kept my lines. I was breaking conservatively and just keeping a decent pace in the 2:09's. As I came up on my pit window I was in 5th and I was debating whether to take the full fuel load or try to pass in the pits. I took a chance and dropped my fuel to 12.5 gallons instead of the usual 16 full load. I pulled out of the pits and after a few laps realized I was in 3rd! Wow! Well, 15 minutes to go, 4th place was 5 seconds behind and faster than me. I just kept it tidy, and he outbraked himself in turn 1 (where he was quite a bit faster). I brake earlier than usual there, but he could have seen that after following me for 3 laps. He recovered and started reeling me in  but I kept my cool and tried to maintain a decent pace. I actually had my best lap on the penultimate lap of the race so that was rewarding. He never caught up and I finished in 3rd on the podium! I looked at the results and I was 18th overall (out of 38) - ahead of several GTE and LMP cars! 

Ended the week at 1424 iRating and 3.62 Safety Rating.

### Results:
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [Circuit Gilles Villeneuve](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=37527836). 13 laps. Qualified 2nd, ranked 7th. I was in the 2nd split, but I was still well down in the ranking. I Had a good start that I capitalized on. Only 2 mistakes resulting in a 1x, and I led the race, so I had a healthy iRating and Safety Rating gain!  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 2:00.407. Finshed 1st place out of a field of 15. Strength of Field was 1215 and I gained 84 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: [Autodromo Nazionale Monza - Grand Prix](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=37464054). 45 minutes. Qualified 9th, ranked 7th. One of my best races ever! Such a good battle for 7th place, and great driving all around  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 2:15.744. Finshed 7th place out of a field of 27. Strength of Field was 1098 and I gained 38 iRating.
* **VRS GT Sprint**: [Sebring International Raceway - International](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=37528963). 40 minutes. Qualified 21st, ranked 28th. I really had high hopes for myself here, but there's only so much you can do with a 22 minute repair time in a 40 minute race. Ugh.  
**VRS Results**: Best lap: 2:04.166. Finshed 26th place out of a field of 28. Strength of Field was 1496 and I lost 80 iRating.
* **IMSA**: [Road America - Full Course](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=37544263). 45 minutes. Qualified 9th, ranked 3rd. This was another good race, making 3/4 races with postitive results this week. I'm feeling better and better about GT-3, even though I'm slow. My consistency is regularly placing me well, and I'm actually considering to continue my IMSA career next season (versus dropping to IMSA Michelin Pilot challenge in the GT-4 cars). I had 3 minor mistakes but gained Safety Rating as well as iRating in this race. I'm really happy with this result!  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 2:08.850. Finshed 3rd place out of a field of 11. Strength of Field was 1999 and I gained 45 iRating.
