---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 1, Week 10 (part one)"
date:   2021-02-16 21:00:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## A great drive in Advanced MX-5!

Some races are bad, and some are good, but rarely do I have a good race and a bad race in the same race!
 
This week it’s Monza with the MX-5. I just raced that with the GT-3 last week so I remember the race well, plus I’m in a slower car so I have time to think, so I thought I’d give it a go - even if it’s my “practice night.”
 
I entered the race ranked 7th and thought I could place well in the top 10, and maybe pull off a top 5 (I’m getting better at longer races due to my consistency, not outright speed). I hit the barrier in my out lap in quali, putting me down at 8th on the grid. No worries, I have a leisurely 45 minutes so I’ll be fine.
 
First corner went well, and the top 10 didn’t pile up thankfully. The guy ahead of me was slow off the line and so I picked up a place. I picked up a few more places though the first lap or two, still taking it easy. 6th place! Wow I’m stoked! 

We got down to racing. It's lap two and three of us were battling for 6th, 7th, and 8th. I was side by side with another guy through Ascari 8, got ahead in turn 9, and was well out in 10. I made sure to give the other car plenty of room but BAM! Guy behind me punts for no reason. I wasn’t turning in and I was clearly ahead in the exit. I spin - get back on the grass and then WHAM WHAM WHAM. Everyone in the field took their turn smashing into me. No one uses brakes any more? What the heck? Somehow I survived with only a +4 even though I should have been dead from getting hit by nearly every car. 
 
Well, after an eternity of being a Miata shaped pinball I ended up in the grass facing the wrong way. I let the remaining cars go by and got back on track. The iRacing gods smiled and I didn’t have any significant damage to front end (aero) or steering / alignment. I was in 21st place, but I could still salvage the race. Maybe a top 15? And minimize my iRating hit.
 
I got back on the gas and started lapping. I gained quite a few places within the first few laps and started jumping up. 17th, 15th, 11th! Hmm, I’m catching up to the next 3 cars but I need to pit for fuel, and there’s still 20 minutes so I can’t go with an aggressive fuel strategy. Better just fill up.
 
After what seemed like an eternity fueling, I rejoined in 10th, but due to fuel windows that doesn’t mean anything. Hopefully I can regain my positions and make that 10th stick. Another few laps go by and I’m solidly in the top 10! I spent the rest off the race battling 3-4 cars with many “lead” changes in the group. We were all angling for 7th and we all wanted it. We were all racing really clean, only a few bumps which didn’t result in any penalties. I got ahead with 2 laps to go and was pulling by away, then outbreaked myself in the first corner! Argh! I missed it, got flagged and so I let the other two guys go. Oh well, 9th is way better than 22nd! 
 
The guy in 8th was ragged so I passed him again, but the guy in 7th - he was ranked higher than me, and was driving well. I could tell he was a little slower but it wasn’t enough to send it and he was racing extremely well. We hung together the remainder of the lap, but he made a small mistake and I capitalized on it. I could tell his tires were going off so I set up in Parabolica and made the pass stick on the main straight. I kept it together for the rest of the last lap and finished 7th!
 
7th place has never felt so good! I've put [the full video](https://youtu.be/f5Td4DxFrPs) on YouTube!

### Results:
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [Circuit Gilles Villeneuve](). _Will drive later_.  
**SRF Results**: _No results_.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: [Autodromo Nazionale Monza - Grand Prix](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=37464054). 45 minutes. Qualified 9th, ranked 7th. One of my best races ever! Such a good battle for 7th place, and great driving all around.  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 2:15.744. Finshed 7th place out of a field of 27. Strength of Field was 1098 and I gained 38 iRating.
* **VRS GT Sprint**: [Sebring International Raceway - International](). _Will drive later_.  
**VRS Results**: _No results_.
* **IMSA**: [Road America - Full Course](). _Will drive later_.  
**IMSA Results**: _No results_.
