---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 1, Week 11"
date:   2021-02-27 16:30:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## Week 11!

So, my mistake last week in VRS made me inelegible for the credit, and this week is Bathurst which I don't have, so no VRS story this week. However, I finished my 8 races for participation credit in IMSA! That's seven whole dollars! Wewt! I also completed MX-5 ($4) and SRF ($4) this week. That means I earned my max of $10 this season! 

I raced on Tuesday and Thursday so the only race I had to focus on was the IMSA race. I did pick up a short MX-5 race at Oran Park, and made a silly mistake under braking resulting in a 2x (no safety rating impact) it dropping me down a few places, and I finshed 8th losing 24 iRating. The IMSA race went really well, and I'm very close to a 4.0 Safety Rating. I think I'm going to do a Sim Lab Production Car Challenge race (40 minutes) which is a longer race and try to earn the remaining 0.04 safety rating to push me over 4.0. I did this race once in the past, and it's actually a good race, long distance, multiclass (although everyone was in MX-5s), and it's a good time.

I finished 2 more races today (Sunday Feb 28th) and earned my A-Class! Which drops me down a Safety Rating point (4.64 -> 3.64). I lost a few iRating, so I'm now 1437 iRating and 3.64 Safety Rating. Wewt!

### Results:
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [WeatherTech Raceway at Laguna Seca - Full Course](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=37617787). 15 laps. Qualified 9th, ranked 8th. This was a bit of a frustrating race for me, I had multiple stupid mistakes, spinning 3 times in the corkscrew. I'm not a superstitious person but after the 2nd spin in front of the same driver I swear he was putting a "hex" on me! I passed him 3 times and all three times I missed my braking point at the top of the corkscrew. I was pretty happy with 6th, and the Saftey Rating hit was small.  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 1:42.722. Finshed 6th place out of a field of 16. Strength of Field was 1366 and I gained 27 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: [Oulton Park Circuit - Intl w/no Chicanes](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=37584429). 25 minutes. Didn't qualify, ranked 4th. I had a frustrating start, but I recovered well. I had stupid tiny offs on both of my qualifying laps, so I didn't place. I was placed near the back of the grid (at 23rd) and thought I could make a decent start and hopefully finish in the top 5 or so. I was concerned that I was highly ranked in this split so I felt I needed to finsh well. I joined the race and I was disconnected (latency?). Oof, that's a bad sign. I quickly restarted iRacing and rejoined. I managed to join only a few seconds after the start so I wasn't down any laps thankfully. Another guy joined about the same time and it sounded like he had the same problem. We pushed ahead and battled it out through the race and had a great time. I managed to finish just in front of him and we had gotten to 12th and 13th place which was a good finish considering.  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 1:43.957. Finshed 12th place out of a field of 28. Strength of Field was 1322 and I gained 12 iRating.
* **VRS GT Sprint**: Mount Panorama Circuit . 40 minutes. I do not have this track. No race.  
**VRS Results**: No best lap.
* **IMSA**: [Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps - Grand Prix Pits](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=37646593). 60 minutes. Qualified 10th, ranked 7th. This was my longest race ever, and Spa is pretty unforgiving with the track limits. I'm still shooting for safety rating, and I knew I wouldn't finish really highly as my best lap times were down 4 seconds from the fastest folks, however what I lack in outright speed I make up for in consistency. I'm getting a lot more confident in the GT-3 and I'm rarely going off. I figured I'd just race my pace and see where I ended up. It was a great race, only one incident where I got EXTREMELY lucky and nearly spun but I recovered so it was just a off-track (1x). I gained an impressive Safety Rating (.36) and I'm pretty close to 4.0 which is an automatic promotion to A class! (I'll be promoted at the end of the season regardless).  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 2:21.673. Finshed 6th place out of a field of 11. Strength of Field was 1849 and I gained 1 iRating.
