---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 1, Week 5"
date:   2021-01-16 015:45:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
It turns out I'm not good at driving fast cars.

To be fair to myself, I didn't practice enough this week, Probably a total of 3 hours at Silverstone (a track which I have raced in the past, but not the current GP configuration). It's a fun track! Just not with a brand new GT-3 car. I'll chug away at IMSA and finsh the season. but I think it's time to face the fact that I'm just not ready. Maybe I'll go with IMSA Challenge (a GT-4 class series) next season.

I jumped into the Spec Racer Ford without any practice and placed well (after a few stupid mistakes by myself and others). I'll definitely keep racing this series as it's fun and challenging for me.

* **Spec Racer Ford**: Lime Rock Park - Grand Prix. 25 laps. Qualified 8th. I got a bad start and was punted in the first corner. Typical people trying to win the race with cold tires. Had a few other offs as well.  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 1:02.882. Finshed 8th place out of a field of 19. Strength of Field was 1417 and I gained 23 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: Nurburgring Nordschleife - Industriefahrten. 3 laps. I do not have this track. No race.  
**MX-5 Results**: No Best lap.
* **VRS GT Sprint**: Detroit Grand Prix at Belle Isle. 40 minutes. I do not have this track. No race.  
**VRS Results**: No Best lap.
* **IMSA**: Silverstone Circuit - Grand Prix. 45 minutes. Qualified 11th. I only had a few offs, but I was back-of-pack the entire race. Basically spent the entire race under blue flag.  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 2:04.802. Finshed 11th place out of a field of 12. Strength of Field was 1782 and I lost 77 iRating.
