---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 2, Week 8"
date:   2021-05-11 19:45:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## Welcome to the iRating roller coaster



### Results at week end
* 1448 iRating
* 2.69 Safety Rating
* Spec Racer Ford
  + 3 / 650 Division 5
  + 120 / 3926 Worldwide
* Advanced MX-5 Cup
  + 26 / 1394 Division 5 (almost first page!)
  + 324 / 8619 Worldwide
* IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge
  + 27 / 814 Division 5 (almost first page!)
  + 398 / 6308 Worldwide

### Race Detail
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [Mount Panorama Circuit](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38592798). 10 laps. Qualified 2nd, ranked 1st. Bathurst is an extremely difficult circuit, and SRF is a "pointy" car, which means I was on my best behavior. Still, I made a few mistakes (only 1 incident thankfully) and was way behind first. I was not really battling for second, the guy in 3rd let me have it so I just tried to keep it clean and gain SR and a little bit of IR. On the 9th lap Crew Chief said "first binned it in (some corner)" and I sped up just a little, because at that point he was 18 seconds ahead. Well, I saw him turn "blue" which I think means he towed to the pits. I saw the time between us drop faster and faster and I passed him just by start-finsh. Since SRF has a "instant fix" option, I was still worried he may get out and pass me on the last lap. Fortunately I made it by and got first!  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 2:41.894. Finshed 1st place out of a field of 10. Strength of Field was 1025 and I gained 67 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: [Virginia International Raceway - Full Course](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38591032). 25 minutes. Qualified 10th, ranked 2nd. I've raced VIR in other sims, but not iRacing, however I'm comfortable in the MX-5 and I know enough to get through without crashing. I was ranked highly in this group and didn't qualify well, but there's always the first lap shenanigans, so I wasn't worried. I made really good progress through the field, and everyone was racing clean. I got through the entire race with the guy behind me hounding me pretty closely through the last 3 laps. For some reason he decided to make his pass at the oak tree (which still stands in the game). He saw my line through there 3 times, but decided to send it. Of course if he was thinking right, he would have realized that he could have just passed me on the straigt using the draft. Of course I got a 4x which was annoying but he didn't shove his way through and backed off so I kept my place. Fortunately the 4x didn't reduce my SR.  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 2:11.135. Finshed 6th place out of a field of 20. Strength of Field was 1072 and I gained 27 iRating.
* **IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge**: [Brands Hatch Circuit - Grand Prix](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38565922). 30 minutes. Qualified 7th, ranked 5th. Brands is pretty familiar to me now, having raced it in both MX-5 and SRF this season. I kept it tidy and didn't suffer any incidents, and got 4th which was nice.  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 1:33.026. Finshed 4th place out of a field of 17. Strength of Field was 1141 and I gained 47 iRating.
