---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 2, Week 9"
date:   2021-05-16 14:00:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## Don't race unknown tracks!

This week was another new track for me - Zandvoort. I thought a few practice laps before the race would be good enough. LOL, no. I actually was doing pretty well until I spun, and then somehow broke the car resulting in a meatball. I was able to get back to the pits, but the 5 minute repair put me 4 minutes down and in the back of the pack (literally, I finished last). I took my lumps (NINETY NINE iRating!) and spent time learning the track. My pace was good enough for 10th - 12th so next race will be better. As a small consolation, I completed my MX-5 series completion credit ($4) which now has me at the max credit for a season ($10).

### Results at week end
* xxxx iRating
* y.yy Safety Rating
* Spec Racer Ford
  + 3 / 650 Division 5
  + 120 / 3926 Worldwide
* Advanced MX-5 Cup
  + 26 / 1394 Division 5 (almost first page!)
  + 324 / 8619 Worldwide
* IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge
  + 27 / 814 Division 5 (almost first page!)
  + 398 / 6308 Worldwide

### Race Detail
* **Spec Racer Ford**: [Suzuka International Racing Course - Grand Prix](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38745714). 10 laps. Qualified 5th, ranked 4th. Suzuka is an extremely challenging circuit with several corners I still struggle with. I'm consistently slow in Turn 1 which probably costs me a second right there. The esses are another difficult section for me, I feel that I'm really losing time there but can't put my finger on it. And then there's Spoon I slow down so much for the first part of the corner (to navigate the second part) that my exit is extremely slow. I'm debating racing again here this week. I was doing so well and ready for a podium but made a few mistakes (also knocking another racer out which I was really upset about) and incurred 6 incidents - giving me a Safety Rating hit.  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 2:30.607. Finshed 4th place out of a field of 11. Strength of Field was 1296 and I gained 28 iRating.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup**: [Circuit Park Zandvoort - Grand Prix](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38685730). 25 minutes. Qualified 7th, ranked 15th. First race was a disaster, so I practiced more and raced again.  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 2:04.167. Finshed 8th place out of a field of 26. Strength of Field was 1558 and I gained 45 iRating.
* **IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge**: [Mid-Ohio Sports Car Course - Full Course](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=38710482). 30 minutes. Qualified 11th, ranked 13th. Experience.  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 1:28.497. Finshed 12th place out of a field of 13. Strength of Field was 1454 and I lost 67 iRating.
