---
layout: post
title:  "iRacing 2021, Season 3, Week 1"
date:   2021-06-20 18:30:00 -0700
categories: [iRacing, simracing]
---
## Disapointing start to the season

Spec Racer Ford is all new! MX-5 now has a sequential! Red Bull Ring! Sounds like a great week, right? Oh, wait. Chad is a slow learner and this week was a disaster. So much safety rating gone, now I'm in jeopardy of losing my A class license. Not that's a big deal because I'm racing Class D and Class C this season.

At least I got my particpation credit.

### Results at week end
* 1305 iRating
* 1.36 Safety Rating 😡
* Spec Racer Ford
  + 154 / 199 Division 5
  + 933 / 1237 Worldwide
* Advanced MX-5 Cup
  + 170 / 226 Division 5
  + 1087 / 1431 Worldwide
* IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge
  + 124 / 196 Division 5
  + 873 / 1429 Worldwide

### Best Race Recap
* **Spec Racer Ford (Class D)**: [WeatherTech Raceway at Laguna Seca - Full Course](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=39305533). 16 laps. Qualified 5th, ranked 11th. What a disaster! I qualified pretty well and just wanted to get to the end of the race to pick up some SR. I didn't do well in practice, but I figured I'd be OK. LOL, I went off or spun so many times I literally was kicked out of the race. I lost 0.85 Safety Rating!  
**SRF Results**: Best lap: 1:36.881. Disqualified because of so many incidents. Strength of Field was 1352. I lost 55 iRating and gained 16 championship points.  
* **Advanced MX-5 Cup (Class C)**: [Autodromo Nazionale Monza - Grand Prix](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=39262453). 45 minutes. Qualified 6th, ranked 1st. I had some decent battles, but kept falling back and collected a healthy number of incidents, mostly my fault. I lost 0.17 Safety Rating.  
**MX-5 Results**: Best lap: 2:16.032. Finshed 13th place out of a field of 19. Strength of Field was 1118. I lost 45 iRating and gained 23 championship points.
* **IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge (Class C)**: [Red Bull Ring - Grand Prix](https://members.iracing.com/membersite/member/EventResult.do?&subsessionid=39306734). 30 minutes. Qualified 16th, ranked 2nd. First race in the new Red Bull Ring. This is a pretty simple track and I had a minimum number of incidents thankfully. At least I gained a small amount of SR.  
**IMSA Results**: Best lap: 1:38.787. Finshed 9th place out of a field of 26. Strength of Field was 982. I gained 17 iRating and 42 championship points.
